0 the secular spirit . . .  0
0.1 notices  . . . . . . .  1
0.2 introduction . . . . .  5
1 what This is  . . . . . . 14
1.1 when there is light . . 15
1.2 when there is dark  . . 20
1.3 when there is life  . . 
1.4 the human experience
1.5 The Wave
1.6 three realities
2 what We are
2.1 you to everyone
2.2 everyone to Terra (include moss ball!)
2.3 Terra to Us
2.4 mind, body, and soul
3 how to live
3.1 openness
3.2 boundaries
3.3 concern

1 notices
2 for my mother, who loved me too much . for my father, who suffered for his sins
3 quotes
4 like any model, every word of the following text is false . but it might be useful


1 in [year], We discovered that We are not a three-dimensional being changing with the constant flowing of time, but rather a four-dimensional being, with time becoming a part of who We are

2 Although it looks like we are made out of little points of energy, but it has four dimensions in space, not three. We simply are unable to peer out from Ourself, and see an intricate braid of energy, looping around one another in ever increasingly large patterns

3 Soon after in [year], We discovered that the way these points or braids flow, or change shape, describes a wave . It seems that if you look closely enough, these points actually look like vibrations, small ripples, undulating as a wave does

4 In [year], or 5574838928584389 convert speed of light to something? It was found that We were growing bigger! And in [year], we learned that it is always growing faster, like a quickly-inflated balloon[a] find video [/a] (at first, then it begins to slow down inflating, as the rubber is no longer able to stretch. We always keep going.

5 In [year], a part of Us, a part of Ourself that studies Ourself as a profession, began to mostly agree with themselves that, really, it is all just one big wave . the moon,  the sun, the stars, you and me and the space between, it is all one big wave, one giant comples ripple, like a pond in the rain

6  Soon after, a smaller part of the big group that studies Ourselves noticed a very interesting hint . it seems that Our whole volume, all the way back to when We were the size of a speck of dust, along with time, maps to the surface of a five-dimensional sphere, but without time, static for as long as We live.

7 when these ideas are taken seriously, it leads us to a beautiful conclusion: there is only one thing, We are made up of our families and friends, the moon and the stars, and all way the back to when it was bright [1]see part 45 or w/e[/1] 

8 from this, there is a reasonable argument that what we are, what all this is, usually called reality, or the universe, or the natural world, is god. I will make this argument as well as the idea of a physical soul, along with its relation to mind and body. I will attempt to make a case, that you and me and the earth, the oblate spheroid beneath our feet, are all one thing, in an even deeper sense, a complexity at scales which allow for life, and all the beauty and trajety that comes with it.

9 Finally, I will suggest how this might be used to find the best way to live . morality and ethics . I look forward to your suggestions and discussion on these topics.

10 Spirituality does not only not require religion[b] not that We do not require it, for religious expression can be a beautiful (or tragect) expression of God[/b] I believe physics itself can give rise to not just spirituality, but a kind of faith.

11 what This is

11 from the beginning to the end of light

12 when time first began, there were only two things: energy and space . energy, powerful in its density, rapidly inflating the space in which it was contained<sup>1</sup> . soon after, this pure form of energy split into two different forms, both present everywhere, but of different natures . one could both push and pull, while the other could only pull<sup>2</sup>

13 soon after, one form of these two energies again split into two, forming again new energies, always everywhere, but different in nature . there were now three different energies existing together in their rapidly growing space

14 place here the rapid inflation of space, space still expands earlier, but don't stress its rate

15 as space expands and cools, forms of energy continue to split from one another, eventually interacting in complicated ways among themselves . colliding ripples of force bounce off one another in different ways, and with different frequency

16 one of these strange interactions, is that suddenly some of these forms of energy could not occupy the same spot, they had to be separated by some distance . suddenly, a new notion popped into existence: the idea of relative position . as waves begin to separate into ripples, separated by the space growing in-between them, they suddenly find themselves to have a spacial relation to another ripple, and vis-aversa whatever . a sea of individual ripples are able to look around, and find itself among many other relationships, different in perspectives, but symmetric all the same

17 at some point, one of these complicated interactions among different forms creates light . the ripples of this light slowly spread out, becoming more and more spaced out between expanding wakes . were one present at this moment, they would see darkness slowly grow to a dark violet hue . this would become brighter, more blue and green then yellow, a mix of a continuously expanding palatte of color. expanding into the reds, and the lower ripples not visible to the human eye
